---
id: 7.1a1
tags:
  - Lund
  - note
created: 2025-10-08
---
---

# Criticality recognising the limations of one's thought

Capire quali sono i nostri limiti di pensiero e abbandonare i nostri preconcetti, allo scopo di pensare nuove strutture. Come dovrebbe essere il teatro che faccio? abbandonare tutto quello che è convenzionalmente nell'occidente visto come "teatro". Proporre nuove strutture comporta di abbandonare quelle del passato.

Vedere la critica come sotto l'ottica di vedere le cause piuttosto che gli effetti, vedere le possibilità e le potenzialità nel rendere contemporaneo invece di vedere i difetti. In sostanza, ragionare sui meccanismi invece di filtrare con i propri valori (solidificati) per decretare la riuscita di un progetto. 

> https://transversal.at/transversal/0806/rogoff1/en
> [[From Criticism to Critique to Criticality - Un teorico è colui che è stato rovinato dalla teoria.]]
> 'Criticality' as I perceive it is precisely in the operations of recognising the limitations of one's thought for one does not learn something new until one unlearns something old, otherwise one is simply adding information rather than rethinking a structure.


> In the project of ‘criticism’ we are mainly preoccupied with the application of values and judgements, operating from a barely acknowledged humanist index of measure sustained in turn by naturalised beliefs and disavowed interests. The project of ‘critique’ which negated that of ‘criticism’ through numerous layers of poststructuralist theory and the linked spheres of sexual difference and post colonialism, has served as an extraordinary examination of all of the assumptions and naturalised values and thought structures that have sustained the inherited truth claims of knowledge. ==Critique, in all of its myriad complexities has allowed us to unveil, uncover and critically re-examine the convincing logics and operations of such truth claims. However, for all of its mighty critical apparatus and its immense and continuing value, critique has sustained a certain external knowingness==, a certain ability to look in from the outside and unravel and examine and expose that which had seemingly lay hidden within the folds of structured knowledge. The ever increasing emphasis on allocating blames and pointing out elisions and injustices has created alliances between critique and such political projects as ‘identity politics’ and diminished the complex potentiality of occupying culture through a set of productive dualities and ambiguities.

---

> Bisogna abbandonare i "corpi di coscienza" e "rinuncia di certe appartenenze"- "perché non si impara qualcosa di nuovo finché non si disimpara qualcosa di vecchio, altrimenti si sta semplicemente aggiungendo informazioni anziché ripensare una struttura."

---
Precedente:
[[7.1a_Negotiation is a key - Eleonora Fabião]]

---

Vedi anche:
[[7.1 Critical Now]]
[[1.1d_Il debito è produttivo]]
[[7.1b_Positioning as an artist]]

---
Usato in:
